.TH XTRLOCK 1
.SH NAME
xtrlock \- Lock X display until password supplied, leaving windows visible
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xtrlock [-b] [-f] [-F]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xtrlock
locks the X server till the user enters their password at the keyboard.

While
.B xtrlock
is running, the mouse and keyboard are grabbed and the mouse cursor
becomes a padlock.  Output displayed by X programs, and windows put up
by new X clients, continue to be visible, and any new output is
displayed normally.

The mouse and keyboard are returned when the user types their
password, followed by Enter or Newline.  If an incorrect password is
entered the bell is sounded.  Pressing Backspace or Delete erases one
character of a password partially typed; pressing Escape or Clear
clears anything that has been entered.

If too many attempts are made in too short a time further keystrokes
generate bells and are otherwise ignored until a timeout has expired.

The X server screen saver continues to operate normally; if it comes
into operation the display may be restored by the usual means of
touching a key (Shift, for example) or the mouse.
.SH WARNING 
Due to limitations in the X11 protocol, the xtrlock cannot intercept all
keyboard and mouse events if run under a Wayland-based desktop environment. In
this situation, applications that use the "legacy" X11 protocol will be locked
whilst ones supporting Wayland can still be interacted with, even when xtrlock
is in operation. Some keyboard shortcuts may also continue to function whilst
the display is locked.

A warning is printed if such an environment is detected. For an alternative
solution, please see swaylock(1) or similar.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
blank the screen as well as displaying the padlock
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
fork after locking is complete, and return success from the parent
process
\fB\-F\fR
force lock, e.g. if there is no password set.
process
.SH X RESOURCES, CONFIGURATION
None.
.SH BUGS
Additional input devices other than the keyboard and mouse are not
disabled.

The timeouts, bitmaps and mouse cursor colour cannot be modified.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X "(1), Xlib Documentation."
.SH AUTHOR
Ian Jackson <ian@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1993, 1994 by Ian Jackson.

Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
documentation is granted under the terms of the GNU General Public
Licence, version 2 or later, as published by the Free Software
Foundation.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.
